what is ESD that's probably the first
question I get asked by any designer or
architect ESD is the acronym for
electrostatic discharge essentially what
we're talking about is the ability for a
person to move their body while they
walk on the floor generate a charge
store that charge and when they actually
release that charge to another object
whether it's an electronic component a
person a doorknob that's when the
electrostatic discharge takes place what
most people don't realize about static
is that in order to feel a static
discharge you're generating close to
thirty five hundred volts the problem we
have when protecting electronics is
electronic devices are actually
sensitive to as little as 5 or 10 volts
of static that means that the problem
we're trying to cure is invisible and
because people tend to view the world
through their own lens they don't know
they have a static problem because
they're not getting a shock
unfortunately electronic components is
sensitive as they are are being
destroyed degraded and damaged without
us even realizing it ESD flooring can
come in almost any form where I've got
in my hand right now is a solid vinyl
tile if you notice there's little veins
in the tile those veins contain carbon
carbons a conductor if a static charge
touches the outside of the tile the
charge is transported through the veins
to an adhesive underneath this tile so
we talked about ESD flooring we could be
talking about vinyl tile we could be
talking about carpet with carbon fibers
we could be talking about special
epoxies with carbon fibers we could be
talking about rubber almost any form of
flooring that you can imagine we have a
way to render it into a static free
floor but really the biggest
consideration is safety one of the
things we've discovered in our audits of
flooring installations is a lot of times
people are putting flooring in that
not safe it's too conductive the problem
with something that's too conductive
means people are at risk the floor has
to be properly grounded has to be tested
after its installed and we have to know
with certainty that the conductivity of
the floor meets certain OSHA and NFPA
safety standards if you're looking for
more detailed information go onto our
website and go to the knowledge Center
at WWE SD tile comm or you can call me
personally at